---
title: "IRTF Code of Conduct"
abbrev: "IRTF Code of Conduct"
category: info

docname: draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct-latest
submissiontype: IRTF
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]
stand_alone: yes
consensus: true
v: 3
ipr: trust200902
area: General
workgroup: "IRTF"
keyword:
 - IRTF
 - Code of Conduct
venue:
  mail: ""
  arch: ""
  github: "irtf-chair/code-of-coduct"
  latest: "https://irtf-chair.github.io/code-of-coduct/draft-perkins-irtf-code-of-conduct.html"

author:
 -  ins: C. S. Perkins
    fullname: Colin Perkins
    organization: University of Glasgow
    email: csp@csperkins.org

normative:
  ANTI-HARASSMENT:
    title: IETF Anti-Harassment Policy
    target: https://irtf.org/policies/#anti-harassment
    date: Nov, 2013

  NISTIR8366:
    title: Guidance for NIST Staff on Using Inclusive Language in Documentary Standards
    author:
      - name: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)
    seriesinfo: Interagency or Internal Report 8366 (NISTIR 8366)
    date: April 2021
    target: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8366

  OMBUDSTEAM:
    title: Ombudsteam
    target: https://www.ietf.org/contact/ombudsteam/
    date: Nov, 2013

  RFC7154:

informative:


--- abstract

TODO Abstract


--- middle

# Introduction

The Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) promotes research of importance to
the evolution of the Internet protocols, applications, architecture and
technology. The IRTF focuses on longer term research issues related to the
Internet while the parallel organisation, the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), focuses on the shorter term issues of engineering and
standards making.

Research is most effective when done in an open and inclusive forum that
encourages diversity of ideas and diversity of participation. The IRTF,
through these guidelines for conduct, will continue to strive to create and
maintain an environment that encourages broad participation, and one in
which people of many different backgrounds are treated with dignity,
decency, and respect. We will work to ensure that all members of the IRTF
community feel valued and respected, regardless of their gender, race,
ethnicity, national origin, age, sexual orientation or identity, education,
disability, or other unique characteristics.


# Conduct

The IRTF is committed to providing a safe and enjoyable experience for all
participants. Those participating in the IRTF must extend respect and
courtesy to others at all times. Harassment, unwelcome, hostile, or
intimidating behaviour will not be tolerated in IRTF meetings and events,
or on mailing lists and other online forums. Participants must follow the
IETF anti-harassment policy which also applies to the IRTF [ANTI-HARASSMENT].

Harassment is unwelcomem hostile, or intimidating behaviour, in particular
speech or behaviour that is sexually aggressive or that intimidates based on
attributes such as race, gender, religion, age, colour, national origin,
ancestry, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Harassment of
this sort will not be tolerated in the IRTF. Examples of harassment
include, but are not limited to, the use of offensive language or sexual
imagery in public presentations and displays, degrading verbal comments,
deliberate intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording,
inappropriate physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

If you believe you have been harassed, notice that someone else is being
harassed, or have any other concerns, you are encouraged to raise your
concern with the relevant Research Group Chair, the IRTF Chair, or the
Ombudsteam [OMBUDSTEAM]. All such concerns will be considered and action
will be taken as appropriate, up to and including exclusion of the
offending party from IRTF activities.

The IRTF operates and make use of a number of mailing lists and other
online discussion forums. The Research Group chairs act as moderators for
such forums used by their research groups; the IRTF Chair moderates
IRTF-wide lists and discussion forums. Harassment or disruption due to the
posting of messages that are off-topic, inflammatory, abusive or otherwise
inappropriate on these lists and discussion forums will not be tolerated.
Moderators will respond to harassing or disruptive behaviour with a warning
in the first instance, but thereafter may temporarily or permanently
suspend posting rights for any individual engaging in such behaviour.

# Language and Imagery

English is the de facto language in which the IRTF works, but is not the
native language of many IRTF participants. All participants, particularly
those with English as a first language, should attempt to accommodate the
needs of others by communicating clearly.

Participants should aim to speak slowly and clearly in presentations and
discussions, and should strive to make presentations and other materials
accessible to those with impaired vision or disabilities. Participants
should also avoid the use of slang and unnecessary jargon in both spoken
and written communication. When faced with English that is difficult to
understand, IRTF participants should make a sincere effort to understand
each other and to engage in conversation to clarify what was meant.

Participants should ensure that language and imagery used in IRTF
documents, presentations, mailing lists, research group meetings,
conferences, workshops, and other events, is respectful and inclusive.
Effective research uses terminology that is clear, precise, and widely
accessible to readers from varying backgrounds and cultures.  Participants
are encouraged to follow the guidance on inclusive language in [NISTIR8366]
when making contributions to the IRTF.


# Academic Integrity

The IRTF takes academic integrity seriously.

# Participation

Recognising the need to bring new work and new ideas to the IRTF, to
address both technical and non-technical challenges relating to the ongoing
development of the Internet, the IRTF will seek to encourage research
relating to the development of the Internet in all its diversity and for
all its users.

To encourage and broaden participation, the IRTF will work to provide
travel grants, fee waivers, childcare, and other support to allow students,
early career researchers, members of under-represented groups, and others who
might otherwise be unable to participate, to attend IRTF research group
meetings, workshops, conferences, and other events.  Accessibility and
access concerns should be considered when organising such events.

IRTF participants will work to make meeting materials available online in
 a timely manner, and will work to ensure that such materials are broadly
accessible. Where possible, remote participation options will be provided
for IRTF events to support those who cannot attend in person.


# Rationale

The IRTF is not the IETF. While the two organisations work closely
together, and often co-locate meeting and other activities, they have
different goals and work in different ways.

The IETF is a consensus-driven standards developing organisation, where
participants use their best engineering judgment to find the best solution
for the whole Internet, as it stands today, and to develop the best
technical standards to make the Internet work better.
IRTF research can be more speculative, and takes a longer-term view of
the development of the Internet without the requirements for consensus
or near-term applicability and deployability that come from standards
development.

Compared to the IETF equivalent [RFC7154] this IRTF code of conduct
reflects those differences in emphasis between the two organisations.



# Security Considerations

The IRTF code of conduct does not directly affect the security of the
Internet. Researchers working in the IRTF should consider the potential
security risks and implications of their work and, where possible, should
aim to improve the security of the Internet through their research.


# IANA Considerations

This document requires no IANA actions.


--- back

# Acknowledgments
{:numbered="false"}

This work is supported in part by the UK Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Council under grant EP/S036075/1.

This memo is based, in part, on the IETF guidelines for conduct [RFC7154].
The influence of the code of conduct and other policies of the USENIX
Association and the Association for Computing Machinery is also gratefully
acknowledged.

